Migrate obtaing a thread dump documentation (#4066)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/system-administration/obtaining-a-thread-dump.adoc

---
layout: section
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Obtaining a thread dump

> During the troubleshooting of Jenkins, others may request that you obtain
> thread dumps of relevant Java VMs. Thread dumps concisely capture what
> every thread in a VM is doing at a given point in time.

Reviewer: sentence per line?
```suggestion
During the troubleshooting of Jenkins, others may request that you obtain
thread dumps of relevant Java VMs.
Thread dumps concisely capture what every thread in a VM is doing at a given point in time.
```

They are useful to diagnose hang problems, deadlocks, and performance issues.
This page explains how you can obtain a thread dump.

[[Obtainingathreaddump-FromJenkinsWebUI]]
== From Jenkins Web UI

This is the simplest way of obtaining thread dumps.

> If Jenkins or its build agents are operating normally, you can obtain a
> thread dump remotely by going to
> `+http://your.jenkins.server/threadDump+`. For an agent named 'xyz', go
> to `+http://your.jenkins.server/computer/xyz/systemInfo+`. You need to
> have the administrator permission on the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Jenkins or its build agents are operating normally, you can obtain a
thread dump remotely by going to
`+http://your.jenkins.server/threadDump+`.
For an agent named 'xyz', go to `+http://your.jenkins.server/computer/xyz/systemInfo+`.
You need to have the administrator permission on the system.
```

[[Obtainingathreaddump-Byusingjstack]]
== By using `+jstack+`

> If Jenkins is not responding to web UI, try
> https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/troubleshoot/tooldescr016.html[jstack]
> to obtain the thread dump. For one reason or another that none of us
> quite understand well, one might have to add -F to get the dump. If that
> was the case, please mention that in the report as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Jenkins is not responding to web UI, try
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/troubleshoot/tooldescr016.html[jstack]
to obtain the thread dump.
You might have to add -F to get the dump.
If that was the case, please mention that in the report as well.
```

Make sure to run jstack as the same user that's running Jenkins itself
instead of using the root user.

[[Obtainingathreaddump-Bysendingsignal]]
== By sending signal

If the above two approaches do not work, you can still have the JVM
print the thread dump to its stdout by sending it a signal.

> If you have a terminal or command prompt that's running the JVM, you can
> hit Ctrl+ + (Unix) or Ctrl+Break (Windows) to do this. If the JVM is running in
> background, you do this by `+kill -3 PID+` (Unix) or use
> https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-5/jmc-user-guide/toc.htm/[a tool like this] to send a signal (Windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a terminal or command prompt that's running the JVM, you can
hit Ctrl+ + (Unix) or Ctrl+Break (Windows) to do this.
If the JVM is running in background, you do this by `+kill -3 PID+` (Unix) or use
https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-5/jmc-user-guide/toc.htm/[a tool like this] to send a signal (Windows).
```

> Obviously, you must be on the same machine as the Jenkins controller when

Reviewer: Not really a fan of the tone set by this
```suggestion
You need to be on the same machine as the Jenkins controller when
```

> you run this command. In a situation like this, the standard output of
> JVM is normally redirected to a log file, so you need to hunt down where
> it is written to and pick up the dump from there. On Unix, you can look
> at `+/proc/PID/fd/1+` to figure out which file the stdout is being
> written to.
> If you are running as a Windows service, see the link:/doc/book/installing/windows/[Windows installation instructions] for the log file location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you run this command.
In a situation like this, the standard output of JVM is normally redirected to a log file,
so you need to hunt down where it is written to and pick up the dump from there.
On Unix, you can look at `+/proc/PID/fd/1+` to figure out which file the stdout is being
written to.
If you are running as a Windows service, see the link:/doc/book/installing/windows/[Windows installation instructions] for the log file location.
```

thread dump remotely by going to
`+http://your.jenkins.server/threadDump+`. For an agent named 'xyz', go
to `+http://your.jenkins.server/computer/xyz/systemInfo+`. You need to
have the administrator permission on the system.

[[Obtainingathreaddump-Byusingjstack]]
== By using `+jstack+`

If Jenkins is not responding to web UI, try
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/troubleshoot/tooldescr016.html[jstack]
to obtain the thread dump. For one reason or another that none of us
quite understand well, one might have to add -F to get the dump. If that
was the case, please mention that in the report as well.

Make sure to run jstack as the same user that's running Jenkins itself
instead of using the root user.

[[Obtainingathreaddump-Bysendingsignal]]
== By sending signal

If the above two approaches do not work, you can still have the JVM
print the thread dump to its stdout by sending it a signal.

If you have a terminal or command prompt that's running the JVM, you can
hit Ctrl+ + (Unix) or Ctrl+Break (Windows) to do this. If the JVM is running in
background, you do this by `+kill -3 PID+` (Unix) or use

> https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-5/jmc-user-guide/toc.htm/[a tool like
> this] to send a signal (Windows).

Reviewer 2: Generally prefer to not split links across a line because it confuses the syntax highlighting in my editor.
```suggestion
https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-5/jmc-user-guide/toc.htm/[a tool like this] to send a signal (Windows).
```
